hey guys welcome to mass of iron channel
I'm Steve Shaw editorial director at
Tiger fitness com and muscle and brawn
nutrition CEO guys in this video I want
to talk about the biggest training
mistake the number one training mistake
I see this at commercial gyms every time
I venture out of my home and go train at
a gold's gym or wherever I get a lot of
questions about you know why aren't I
seeing results and it usually boils down
to this the number one training mistake
is that guys will have no focus when it
comes to their daily work up they'll
have no focus with regards to
progression with regards to their set
etc etc what I mean about what I mean by
this is that guys will go in and just
lift weights a they did dumbbell rows
with 80 pounds during their last work on
they don't have a specific goal on how
to improve that each set or all their
set senator doing three sets of whatever
they don't have a specific goal for
those sets they aren't trying to improve
by a few reps on each set or they don't
have a measuring stick like if I hit
three sets by ten reps with 80 pound
dumbbell rows i'm going to add five
pounds they just go into the gym and do
work they don't have a definitive
measuring stick on 12 progress they
don't have a definitive definitive plan
of attack they just go in and move
weight from point A to point B and that
is the biggest mistake you can make in
the gym if you don't have a goal if you
aren't focused on some sort of
improvement some sort of progression
some sort of increase increase of
resistance then you're just going to go
into the gym there's a strong likelihood
that your results are going to be
minimal because you aren't pushing
things in the gym you are trying to
exceed your last performance on a given
exercise and or given set you're just
going in to the gym and moving weight
this is a huge mistake and if this is
you you need to make a plan of attack me
personally for beginners too early in
I recommend that they focus on
maximizing every set this is simple this
is basic and it's almost impossible to
forget when you go into the gym it goes
like this whatever exercise you're doing
you push that exercise you push that set
for as many reps as possible stopping
that set either when you feel like you
might fail on the next rep or when your
form starts to break down simple you
just perform as many safe reps as you
can without your form breaking down you
have the goal of improving over your
last efforts your last effort by one two
three reps whatever you can get so if
you did 85 pound dumbbell rows for eight
reps you go into the gym today and you
try to get 85 by nine eighty five by ten
85 by 11 you're trying to beat the
performance on each set now you also
need some sort of a measuring stick you
need some sort of a measuring stick
meaning you know exactly when you're
going to add weight now I use a rep goal
system that's in my book massive arm
which you can find link below but you
can really do in any way you want I just
use the rep coil system because it's
stupid simple say on dumbbell rolls I
might use a rep goal of 30 or you might
use a rep goal of 25 a rep gold total is
the number of reps for all sets not for
each set so if you have a rep gold total
of thirty-four three sets of dumbbell
rows you add up the reps for all three
sets and if they reach 30 or more then
you'd add weight the next time in the
gym simple you just have a measuring
stick all the rep coil system is a is is
a measuring stick I don't care if you
use that I don't care if you use
something simple like when I get the
three sets by 10 with a given weight on
it i'm going to add more weight or
whatever i don't really care what
measuring stick you need so if your
results are subpar there's a good chance
that it's from lack of focus you're not
focused on maximizing sets you have no
definitive measuring stick on when to
add weight you're just going into the
gym moving weight from point A to point
B that is the best way to shoot yourself
in the foot
restrict your gains no progress no focus
in the gym is a deadly combination if
you have them if you're not focused on
progress in the gym you have no idea
what you're doing you're just moving
weight from point A to point B you can
forget about seeing good result and guys
I've seen guys and this is literally
true back when I started training at a
YMCA in nineteen ninety or excuse me
1988 I went back there 10 years later
and I'm seeing the same guys moving the
same weight etc etc that is how you
don't that is how you don't see results
if you want to see results you need to
have some sort of focus on progression
and some sort of measuring stick on when
to add way so guys hope this video has
been of some help if you have any
questions or comments guys there's a Q&A
link below come on over post your
question in that QA answer every
question posted the best questions I'll
turn it into a video and make a Q&A
video on saturday so look for those on
Saturdays so guys appreciate your
support if you've yet to subscribe to my
channel please do I would appreciate it
and if you made this far in this video
okay sorry I lost my train of thought
guys I appreciate the support as always
thanks for watching have a great day
it's early guys I haven't had my coffee
I'm sitting here to my car very early so
forgive me I lost my train